# HQL Folder
This folder contains Hive Query Language (HQL) files used for data processing and analysis. Hive is a data warehouse infrastructure built on top of Hadoop for querying and managing large datasets. The HQL files in this folder are organized into different categories to optimize data storage and facilitate data exploration.

### Files
- `bucket.hql`: This file contains Hive commands to create bucketed tables as an optimization technique. Bucketing is a data organization strategy that improves query performance by dividing data into more manageable parts based on specific columns. Bucketing can enhance join and aggregation operations. It provides faster query execution and reduces the amount of data scanned.

- `db.hql`: This file contains Hive commands to create external tables stored as Avro. Avro is a compact, fast, and schema-based data serialization framework. It provides a compact binary format for data storage and supports schema evolution. External tables in Hive allow you to access data stored in external file systems, making it easy to integrate with existing data pipelines and systems.

- `hive_results.txt`: This file contains the results obtained from running the db.hql file. It provides the output and summary of the Hive commands executed.

- `partition.hql`: This file contains Hive commands to create partitioned tables as an optimization technique. Partitioning is a way to divide data into logical units based on certain criteria such as date, region, or category. It enables faster data retrieval by restricting the amount of data scanned during queries.

- `queries.hql`: This file contains 19 Hive queries for Exploratory Data Analysis (EDA). These queries cover a range of data exploration tasks, including data grouping, ordering, aggregation, and joining. They are designed to provide insights and facilitate the analysis of the dataset.

### Usage
To use these HQL files for data processing and analysis, follow these steps:

1. Make sure you have Hive installed and properly configured in your environment.

2. Open a terminal or command prompt and navigate to the HQL folder.

3. Run the desired HQL file using the Hive command-line interface. For example:

```hive -f <file_name>.hql```

4. This will execute the Hive commands specified in the file and create the relevant tables or perform the specified operations.

5. Review the output and results generated by the Hive queries. The hive_results.txt file contains the output and summary of the Hive commands executed in the db.hql file.

Please note that the HQL files provided are specific to this project's dataset and analysis objectives. If you are working with different data or have specific requirements, you may need to modify the HQL files accordingly.